# CART263
CART 263 Project 1 - Artist's Statement

With Sisyphus’ story in mind as the assigned creative inspiration, the task I set myself for this project was to create a mini game without true purpose. A trivial experience with pointless struggles. Fun for the creator, perhaps not so much for the user.

Much like Marcell Jankovics's 1974 animation named after the famous Greek mythology, the aesthetic chosen for this game is one of minimalist simplicity. Inspired by Greek design, such as  meandros (or Greek fret), vector art is used to depict the main objects of the game, the vases and the columns, as well as the background. With a sterile color palette consisting only of white and grays, the visuals of the project is a reflection of its interactions; simple and uncomplicated. The background music chosen to accompany the game is composed of bouzouki (a Greek string instrument) and guitar to stay in the overall chosen theme and aesthetic of the project to unify everything as a coherent whole.

The game consists of simple yet endless click and drag interactions that can never truly come to fruition, aside maybe from creating an ultimate goal of user frustrations. Built upon existing codes seen in class through exercises and examples, it is implemented by jQuery and jQuery UI as primary forms of display and interactions. This metaphorical yet somewhat obvious Sisyphean game presents a frustrating challenge of matching the correct vase to its corresponding column. The meandros symbols on the vases as well as the different column designs are set to fool the user in thinking that the puzzle holds a potential solution, that a specific mix and match action is required in order to achieve the set goal. Of course, the game holds no true answer for the presented challenge, trapping the player in a never ending loop of trial and errors as dialog boxes try their best to demotivate said user at an annoying rate as the game goes on.  The dialogue boxes are set to pop up every 10 seconds in an attempt to frustrate (or maybe even motivate in some cases) the player.

Though coding always represents a great challenge for me, the use of jQuery and jQuery UI as main JavaScript libraries simplifies certain tasks as well as offering a wider (and easier) range of possibilities than only using the p5 library. Dealing with HTML, CSS and JavaScript all at once still feels like an overwhelming learning curve (such as timing the revert position of the vases to their original emplacement) but I believe that experimenting will pay off in the long run. Though I will most likely never become an accomplished programmer, I do hope that through projects such as this one, I will increasingly become comfortable with this ever expanding creative platform.
