# CART263

CART 263 Project 3 - Social Distancing Pick-up lines

With this project being widely open in terms of subject matter and technology, it was difficult not to tackle the situation that is currently plaguing the globe; the Corona Virus Pandemic. In this world now filled with so much unprecedented uncertainty, it seems like the news are a bigger source of worry and stress than any comfort it might bring. So for this project, I decided to take and alternative route and create an outlet where maybe some laughs and humor can be found in these trying times. My goal is by no means to offend but trigger some laughter in times of hardship.

I was inspired by previous projects as well as assignments and activities seen in class for the creation of this project. With, of course, JavaScript as the primary form of artistic expression, I chose to make a small interactive program stirred from social distancing and the quarantine we are all currently the subject of (I can only imagine that the social constraints implemented by government will surely result in a boom of newborns in a few months where couples were self-isolating together with not much else to do but...) By incorporating multiple libraries such as JQuery and ResponsiveVoice, the code is mainly based of a data.json file filed with an array of “social distancing pick up line” that is randomly generated by the user through mouse clicks to which the responsive voice reads out loud what is written on screen. The pitch and the rate of the responsive voice was also altered to emulate a more “suave” sounding person. One of my personal goals for this project was also to have a cleaner, smaller and tidier code in the script.js file instead of a code that would require anyone to scroll for hours in order to find a specific function of variable.

The chosen aesthetic for the overall look of the program is inspired by, of course, viruses. Even though “romance” is an important theme, I chose to go with a dominant palette of green and white colors. Despite the young couple (properly respecting the distance rule), I wanted the look to be more a little clinical than romantic to heighten the comical aspect (also because the virus is the main theme). I instead chose to showcase the subject matter of romance through the music, the ever popular saxophone sounds. I created a GIF out of vector art for the background image in order to perpetuate movement (like the every moving and growing COVID-19) while preventing a static feel.

Though it certainly is not what I originally had in mind as a final project for the CART 263 class, I tried to make the most of the situation within my capacities. Given previous and current circumstances, it definitely was not easy for me to work from home but I am still glad I was able to present a finished project.

I wish we could uninstall and reinstall the year 2020, this version as a virus...
